[Music]
hey how's it going Dave cutie here and
this is a video on the Google home Mini
and the Amazon echo dot so this thing
just came out the Google home in E it's
50 bucks it's relatively inexpensive but
it's just so much cheaper than its
predecessor that thing was a hundred and
twenty bucks I think this is like less
than half price and it looks nice right
but just because it's new and it looks a
heck of a lot nicer than this it doesn't
mean that's inherently better than this
right I've been using this quite a bit
the Amazon echo dot and it's a very good
product but depending what you do and
what you don't do one or the other
might be a better fit so that's what
this video is it's going to talk about
what these products are what they aren't
and I guess kind of a guide as to
whether or not any one of these are
actually a good purchase for you so I'm
gonna focus on three things first let's
talk about using these things as media
controllers so they're both pretty good
as media controllers this thing the
Google home two things kind of bugged me
but it doesn't have an audio jack out so
if you have a pair of speakers that you
want to connect it to like a hardwire
you can't do that and it also doesn't
technically have bluetooth like it does
you can't just connect it to a Bluetooth
enabled speaker you need to connect a
chromecast Audio to some speakers and
then now they can talk wirelessly and I
mean that's just a bit of a money grab
from Google and they're just basically
trying to keep the chromecast Audio
product alive and it's fair but if
you're looking for good audio and just
like a simple audio with less wires and
stuff like that it's gonna cost you a
little bit more with this device with
the Amazon echo dot it's got an audio
out so it's just you plug it up and
you're good to go both of them can be
used as speakers the Google home minis
probably a little bit better sounding
it's not like much better because
neither of them are very good but does
sound a little bit cleaner and just a
little more depth to the audio it does
have upward firing speakers I'm not sure
if that's making a big difference
whereas the Amazon echo dot has downward
firing speakers so when it's on a table
it's just the sound is projected off of
the surface
[Music]
they both handled TV well this thing
needs chromecast this thing needs the
fire stick V both have their advantages
inherently just from the products of
fire stick versus chromecast but they
both work and I wouldn't say that one is
like massively better than the other in
terms of their video playing
capabilities one thing I have noticed
with the Google home products and it's
not just with the Google home mini it's
with all of the Google home products you
can speak more naturally to them whereas
the Amazon products you need to just hit
those keywords for a bill to trigger the
command that you're trying to make it do
hey Google show me a video on youtube
about overwatch alright playing on
YouTube about overwatch videos from
YouTube on office TV and because of that
difference I find it easier and just
more enjoyable to control my media using
Google home products the one big
advantage with this though and this
probably won't apply to most people is
that if you are an audiobook user or
just more particularly audible this
thing can do
like text-to-speech and it can just read
out stories which is super cool it's so
simple I feel like this is something
that Google homes should be able to do
but it doesn't I use audible and I like
audiobooks so yeah the next thing I want
to talk about is using these devices as
an assistant so either a home assistant
or a work assistants or any kind of like
voice operated assistant and both of
them are pretty good but the winner to
me is the Google home product this thing
has just better connectivity for what I
use so everyone's gonna be different I
use a lot of Google services
particularly Google Calendar and this is
excellent for that tomorrow there are
three things on your calendar the first
one is at 12:30 a.m. and its title is
busy stuff one Google home can
distinguish between different voices so
if you have one device in a household
with different people in it they can ask
it with their own voice and it'll react
accordingly so if you have a different
calendar from your wife or your family
members it'll just read your calendar
out to you and tell you your schedule
and same thing with like making call so
if you say or if I said hey Google call
my mom it would call my mom but
I said the same thing call my mom it
would call her mom because our voices
are different calling mom mobile now the
Amazon echo dot is actually connected to
even more services in particular
Microsoft Outlook so if you're an
Outlook user you got to go with this
thing it doesn't even work on the Google
home products when it comes to asking it
questions and this is something that I
don't use very frequently I mean it's
very cool to kind of like trivia time
but it's not something that I use
regularly Google home crushes echo it's
just not even close I want to say it's
like 1 to 10 in terms of the number of
questions that are answered it's just so
much more robust in terms of its
knowledgebase and a large part of that
comes from the data collection Google
has been collecting data for ever and I
feel like it'll be really hard for
Amazon to ever catch up in that regard
hey Google
do you like Siri you know Siri what a
small world hope she's doing well now
the one assistant type feature that
Amazon is just amazing at is shopping
because of Amazon's
ecommerce power right now it's pretty
good like if you need to refill
something you can just request it and it
shows up in your Amazon cart but I think
the future of Amazon's eco products are
going to revolve entirely around the
whole ecommerce thing and that could be
a good thing or a bad thing depending on
how you look at it but I really do think
that's the future of Amazon now in terms
of using these products as home
automation I got to be completely honest
I don't love home automation right now
because I live in a relatively small
condo it's like a small space home
automation isn't that important to me
there's like one large living space all
the cool stuff that you can do with home
automated stuff just is less appealing
in such a small space but I recently got
a house and I've been looking between
these two to kind of see which will be
better from home automation and
surprisingly even though this is called
Google home the Alexa products or the
echo products are just so much better
just they're able to connect to way more
home automation stuff so if that's your
jam if you're looking for home
automation the echo products are the way
to go but you can't go wrong with either
of them they're both really inexpensive
if you're looking for something that's
aesthetically pleasing the Google home
Mini looks nice and it's better
answering questions making phone calls
it's just not great as an audio
controller because it lacks connectivity
but the Amazon echo dot has a line out
so it might be a little bit cheaper and
better for music controls and it's gonna
have better home automation connectivity
so everything I've talked about so far
is pertinent to right now in late 2017
and all it takes is Google or Amazon to
just tweak a little bit of their
software and these things suddenly have
new functionality and new features and
you don't have to buy new hardware right
this is always gonna just have a speaker
and a mic and a power source and it can
do all of the stuff that we've talked
about and it can do any future things
that Google wants these things to do
like doesn't do very much processing so
yeah I mean these are so inexpensive 50
bucks you can definitely get into the
game of whole home automation or just
smart stuff and check it out okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs we
liked it subs we loved it see you guys
next time